Training material for Galaxy and Pulsar on Surf Research Cloud (#5649)
galaxyproject/training-material: topics/admin/tutorials/surf-research-cloud-pulsar/tutorial.md

---
layout: tutorial_hands_on

title: "Pulsar usage on SURF Research Cloud"
zenodo_link: ""
questions:
  - How do I start a Pulsar instance on SURF Research Cloud?
  - How do I connect to Pulsar?
objectives:
  - Be able to attach a Pulsar node to Galaxy and use interactive tools
requirements:
  - type: "none"
    title: Access to the SURF Research Cloud
  - type: "none"
    title: SRAM authentication
  - type: "none"
    title: An SSH key connected to your account
  - type: "none"
    title: Have a basic understanding of how Galaxy works
time_estimation: "30m"
level: Introductory
contributions:
  authorship:
  - hexylena
  - mirelaminkova
  funding:
  - surf

edam_ontology:
- topic_0605 # Informatics
- topic_3071 # Data Management

abbreviations:
  SRC: SURF Research Cloud
  GDPR: General Data Protection Regulations
  SRAM: SURF Research Access Management
  CO: Collaborative Organisation

follow_up_training:
  - type: "internal"
    topic_name: admin
    tutorials:
      - surf-research-cloud-galaxy

> ---

Reviewer: Should these tutorials be listed in the "Running Galaxy on the Cloud" section of the GTN admin topic page? 

If so, please add `subtopic: cloud` to the metadata (now they are placed at bottom in the 'other' section)

{: .hands_on}

This information page should have more than enough information to connect this Pulsar instance to your Galaxy server. You will need to reference information from this page in the following steps:

> <hands-on-title>Configuring Galaxy to use SRC Pulsar</hands-on-title>
> 1. Collect the requirements for accessing the Galaxy machine. You will need:
> 
>    - your username from the first step
>    - your SSH key that is associated with your SRAM account
> 
> 2. SSH into your *Galaxy* machine (not pulsar!).
> 
>    ```
>    ssh -i path/to/your/sram-ssh-key username@galaxy.src-winter-school.src.surf-hosted.nl
>    ```
> 
> 3. You will need to `sudo su` to do anything useful. Do that now.
> 4. `cd /srv/galaxy/` to move into the directory Galaxy configuration is stored.
> 5. The configuration is discussed fully in the Pulsar information, but it will be briefly covered here as well. Generally there are a few steps that must be followed:
>
>    - A runner must be registered
>    - A destination/environment must be added with the pulsar details
>    - Some tools should be redirected to this Pulsar
>

> >    Here is an example of what those changes *might* look like in your Galaxy node. ([FAQ: how to read a diff]({% link topics/admin/faqs/diffs.md %})). In this example our pulsar node was called `p20` but that will be different for you.

Reviewer: FAQs can be included as tip boxes easily as well:

`{% snippet topics/admin/faqs/diffs.md %}`
```suggestion
>    Here is an example of what those changes *might* look like in your Galaxy node.  In this example our pulsar node was called `p20` but that will be different for you.
> 
>    {% snippet topics/admin/faqs/diffs.md %} 
>
```

Reviewer 2: yeah this one was my fault. thanks!
